WEBVTT
Kind: captions
Language: en


Hello everyone in this video


We will be discussing top eight skills that you need in order to become successful data analyst


these are the skills that they'll be asking during the


Interview as well as once you become a data analyst if you have these skills


you can really become successful in your career skill number one is


excel


Believe it or not microsoft excel is still widely used in the industry for doing data analysis


And it is perfect for the small data set and if you have knowledge of excel formulas the vba formulas charting


Pivot table different transpose techniques, etc


You will


Have an age compared to your peers skill number two is sql


It is called structure query language now sql you can do in


Mysql microsoft sql server oracle, there are different databases


on which you can run structure query language


To fetch the data to do different operations with that data and as a data analyst you are often involved in a data exploration


Data collection and all those operations. So having sql skills will be


extremely useful


skill number three is


You should know at least one visualization tool such as power bi or tableau


These are the two most popular ones, but there are many out there in the industry. And if you have learnt at least one tool


You can easily learn some other tools


So if you are asking for me for my choice, I would go for other either power bi or tableau


But once you have learned one tool, you can learn other tools easily


these tools allow you to connect with the data sources and you can


Pull that data into this visualization


Tools and you can build a lot of useful dashboards. I have done one sales insight project using a power bi and


If you look at that project series you will


Figure out how how useful that tool is in terms of building


Interactive dashboards. So once you build the dashboard, it will look more like an application


you can also uh


Export that dashboard as a mobile app. So when someone is looking at the mobile app, they can


interact


and they can


Use various ui controls to fetch the data to fetch different reports and different


Visualizations dashboards. So visualization till tool nowadays is extremely


important


Number four is communication and presentation skills


When you are becoming a data analyst you are often talking with your business manager your engineering groups and different stakeholders


and your job is to communicate the requirements or let's say gather the requirements in


effective way and offer creative solutions


you also need presentation skills because data as a data analyst you are telling your data story when you are building a


Dashboard, let's say for sales insights. You are building a story around


Sales are declining less a particular region, or they're increasing in


Other region and what is the reason behind this?


uh decline or behind the growth so


telling that data story is important and


Presentation skills is something uh that you need to master i'm gonna link some of video


For how to master the presentation skills. It's called death by presentation. So if you are preparing any


presentation make sure you watch that video and


The idea is you should not


Get your audience too much bored with your presentation and you should have an effective


And engaging presentation. So that's very important skill number five is domain knowledge


Often if you're looking at our data analyst job position


They will say financial data analyst or retail data analyst


what it means is if you have a degree in finance or let's say if you have


done masters


Or specialization in retail that domain knowledge is going to be extremely useful many times people ask me that


I have to have a computer science degree in


In order to become data analyst


No


You do not need computer science degree. In fact


If you have specialization, let's say if you're done bachelor of commerce, and or or if you have a degree in


finance


Or let's say in retail or some industry


Then that domain knowledge will be extremely useful because as a data analyst you are solving problems in particular domain


And having that no


Knowledge helps you do data analysis in an effective way


the next skill which is


Not very much required. There are many companies which do not ask for this skill is


Programming. So nowadays python and r are two very popular programming languages


I personally prefer python if you're just starting out just go with python


Having programming knowledge will give you an edge over the computation. So if i'm hiring a data analyst I have two resumes


exist same skills


But let's say if one of the resumes have python, I would just go with that person or any other programming knowledge


Because programming knowledge is not a must for a data analyst but it is a plus


So if you have that it will definitely help you


I have a nice tutorial playlist on python even a fifth grade student can learn from this tutorial playlist. So I have linked


Again, that tutorial playlist in the video description below. You can check it out. You need to watch just first 15 or 16 videos and


Python programming is so easy. And it's so convenient to learn that anyone can learn it. So if you have time, especially during lockdown


Please learn python because it will be very very helpful. But as I said before


Some of the companies do not ask for it


So even if you don't have programming knowledge as a data analyst you might end up doing just okay


the next skill is


mathematics and statistics


So when you're doing data analysis you are let's say looking at your data distribution


You need to know what is normal distribution standard deviation to standard deviation how to remove outliers. So you need to have


Basic math and statistics knowledge. You should know uh


basics about inferential statistics and descriptive statistics


You don't need to be super genius in math and statistics


Okay, so just have basic knowledge


And as you work on solving real life problems, you should try to enhance your knowledge in mathematics and statistics


The last skill is problem solving now. This is a common sense approach


It's a general skill where you need to be street smart and you need to be offering


Different solution for a given problem. So there is no like one silver bullet that I can tell you or no?


No, one magic trick that I can tell you to


Improve your problem solving skill, but it's a general smartness that you need to have


So I hope you like this video. All these eight skills are super important if you want to


Get a data analyst job or if you want to become successful in your data analyst career


I have another video where I have shown


How you can learn data analysis skills for free where I have linked all the online resources


and all of these resources are for free, so if you have enough motivation


One computer and internet you can learn all these skills for free sitting at your home


in this lockdown, so if you are thinking of


Uh changing your career to data analysis. It's definitely a good idea


There are so many jobs being open, uh for data analyst and I see many people


Transitioning from let's say mechanical engineering or bcom or different


Backgrounds to a data analyst career if that is something that excites you you should definitely consider this as an option


I have a couple of videos on my channel where?


A couple of mechanical engineers and become graduates


Made a transition transition and they became a successful data analyst right now. They're working for some big companies


So go watch those videos as well if you want to get some tips. I hope you like this. Thank you very much. Bye

